Right, the next two input statements I want to talk about
are the single-static-import declaration
and a static-import-on-demand declaration.
Now both of these were introduced in Java 7,
and are specific only to static methods
and static class variables.
Now I'm gonna discuss static methods
and static class variables in future videos
in detail in the course, but for our purposes here,
we're gonna use the static class variables
defined on the java.lang.Math class.
So, well we need to create a new class,
we're gonna call it test import static.
(clicking)
Paste some coding.
Firstly, we're using PI, which is a static variable,
on java.lang.Math to calculate the circumference,
and we're also using a square root method
defined as a static method on java.lang.Math
to get the square root of 81.
So if we run this code.
(clicking)
You can see the apple
All right, so what we're gonna do now is change the code
to use single static imports.
Right, first I'm goin' to add the imports,
at the top of the file,
then as a reminder we put statements,
must be the first line of code after a package statement
if a package statement exists,
excluding white space and comments,
so I'm gonna paste in those two declarations there,
on lines seven and 10.
And now that I've done that,
we need to change some code here
to use the static variable without the class reference.
So firstly, I've got java.lang.Math.PI,
we're gonna change that purely to PI.
(clicking)
You can see our import static becomes live
on line seven, we can do the same per square root.
(clicking)
And both imports are now being used, as you can see.
And we're not done (mumbles)
using fully qualified class names.
And the other thing we could do here
is we could replace both import statements
with a single-static-import-on-demand declaration,
let's have a go at doing that.
What we're gonna do is comment these out, temporarily.
(clicking)
Obviously, whatever is there now will come back in,
paste in some code,
and there's our static import on demand declaration,
java.lang.Math.star, as you can see.
Know your rows, you can learn the code,
everything works as it should.
(mumbles) I'll comment that out again,
just so you got it in the source file,
if you are downloading this.
(clicking)
And I'll leave the original
single-static-import declarations
for PI and square root in the file.
So to summarise the last three videos,
the package statement is used to group classes
into a logical set of classes, that have some commonality,
only one package can be defined in a .java source file.
The package statement must be the first line of code,
excluding comments, empty lines, white space in general.
Not using a package statement makes the class,
or type that you define, belong to the unnamed package.
To have the compiler create class files
in exploded directories, that represent your package names,
use java c dash d, the directory foo.java,
where directory represents the directory
you want the package directories to be created,
not even a dot, or foo stop,
means current working directory.
A class file does not have to reside
in a directory structure,
that represents its package structure.
To reference a class in a package,
you must use a fully qualified class name
or include an import statement for the package class name.
Import statements are used to inform the compiler,
where the classes outside of the current package
are defined while allowing easier readability.
Now you could rewrite all code
without a single import statement,
using just fully qualified class names,
but I think you would agree it's much harder to read.
You can have zero to many import statements.
Import statements must follow any package statement,
and precede any other code,
excluding comments and white space in general.
And import statements are required if not using
a fully qualified class name, such as java.util.ArrayList.
So in other words, you can't just use
the simplified ArrayList as a type
if you do not have a valid import statement for it.
Java.lang.classname is implicit
whenever you use any java.lang class.
And we saw the example of string, used in these videos.
Now, the other two import statements,
prefixed with import static,
actually don't import classes at all,
but rather, static class attributes or methods.
Right, the next video we'll review some (mumbles) aspects
for running a simple java programme,
and package an import statements.
See you in the next video.